Congratulations for
making it this far in
the course. You're almost done.
Now it's time to
take everything you
learned and put it together
for the final project.
This video will provide
you with the requirements
needed to complete
the final course assessment.
We will also discuss
the grading scheme,
and how to submit
the final assessment
through the provided YAML file.
Let's begin by listing the
objectives of this assessment.
The final project requires using
what you learned
throughout the course
to implement an environment
perception stack
for self-driving cars.
Specifically, you will
be using the output from
semantic segmentation
neural networks
to: implement drivable space
estimation in 3D,
implement lane estimation,
and filter out
unreliable estimates
in the output
of 2D object detectors.
Finally, you will use
the filtered 2D object
detection output to
determine how far obstacles
are from the self-driving car.
By finishing this project,
you will be ready to develop
baseline perception
stacks that would
allow a self-driving car to
know where it can
drive in roads scenes,
what obstacles are within
view which may affect
its decision-making,
and how far away
these obstacles are?
You have already learned
how to perform most of
the required tasks for
this assessment in
the previous lessons.
Let us list the reference
lessons that can
be useful while tackling
this assignment.
For drivable space estimation,
you can refer to Module 1,
Lesson 3 to estimate the x, y,
z coordinates of pixels
from depth, and Module 5,
Lesson 3 to estimate
the ground plane from
semantic segmentation output.
For Lane estimation, you
can refer to Module 5,
Lesson 3 for
estimating lane lines.
For estimating the minimum
distance to impact,
Module 4, Lesson 4 will
be useful for reference.
Now let's describe in detail why
the required tasks are important
for self-driving cars.
Drivable space estimation
in 3D is important
for self-driving cars to safely
traverse the environment.
Using the given sensor
input as well as
semantic segmentation data
from a neural network,
you are required to estimate
the equation of
the ground plane in 3D.
Then determine
pixels belonging to
the ground plane based
on a distance threshold.
Yellow here specifies the pixels
your algorithm should
label as a drivable space.
We will provide you
with code to visualize
the ground plane you estimated in
3D as an occupancy grid.
A topic that will be covered in
the next course in
this specialization.
Note that drivable space
does not mean road.
As you can see,
a portion of an area
behind the sidewalk was
labeled as drivable space two.
Drivable space based on
ground plane estimation provides
the 3D space where the car
is physically capable of driving.
To specify where the car is
legally allowed to drive,
you are required to perform
lane boundary estimation.
To perform this task,
you are provided with
the output of
semantic segmentation.
You are required to use
this output to estimate
the left and right lane
boundaries for your current lane.
The final task for
this assessment
requires you to estimate
the distance to
impact to objects in the scene
provided by an object
detection neural network.
The problem is that,
the neural network model
has a high recall
but a low precision and
provide some errors
in its output.
You are required to
first use the output of
the semantic segmentation
network to filter
out erroneous results from
the object detection network.
Then you are required to compute
the minimum distance to impact
with every obstacle in the scene.
Let's check what the final output
of the whole system
would look like.
Using the estimated ground plane,
the self-driving car will
be able to determine
where it can physically
drive in the environment.
Using the estimated
lane boundaries,
the self-driving car will be able
to abide by the rules
of the road.
Finally, using the filtered
object detection output
along with the distance
to impact estimation,
the self-driving car will be able
to localize obstacles on
the road to determine if
any obstacles or
blocking its path.
For the final project,
keep in mind that the provided
algorithmic guidelines
are not rigid,
and there exist
many alternative approaches
that you could use at
each step of the assessment.
You are encouraged to diverge
from the provided
algorithm outlines
wherever you believe you could do
better in terms of
results or efficiency.
If you have any questions that I
didn't answer in this video,
there are further instructions
in the Jupiter Notebook
itself and don't be afraid
to ask in the discussion
forums as well.
I hope you have fun with
this final project.
I'll see you once again,
once it's complete to
close out the course.
Good luck, and have fun.